Holy moly.
Another section done.
And we're getting so close to the end.
In this section, we learned about searching and traversal some of the most popular and important algorithms.
We learned about linear search and how it can be good for some cases, but not the most efficient because
it has linear time of DN.
We also talked about binary search where we're able to search through things at log of DN.
Essentially skipping a lot of the nodes that we would need to search by dividing the tree in half.
We then talked about how to traverse a tree and a graph that is to visit every single node in the most
efficient way possible.
We talked about depth for search that goes in as deep as possible into a tree or a graph and breadth
for a search that goes level by level, searching or traversing a tree or a graph.
And whether you realize it or not, we've completed a lot of this mind map that looked so intimidating
at the beginning of this course.
You see now when we look at a race, for example.
We understand that.
Well, when a ray we need to search through an array, we can ask the question, hey, is it sorted?
Because if it is, then yes.
In that case we should divide and conquer and arrange that array in a tree like data structure so that
we can do binary search and get a speed boost of oh log n is the array.
Not sorted?
Well, no.
Then it's actually more efficient to sort the array, even though it takes o of an log n as we know
over here, and then do a binary search after we sorted.
And a lot of programs do that.
Although it may seem time consuming to do sorting and then searching, it is actually faster than perhaps
doing a linear search over and over.
We can also complete this part of the graph where we come to graphs and trees.
When we do traversal, that is, try and visit a node in a tree or graph or all nodes in a tree over
graph.
We know that it's going to take o of and that is we have to visit every node.
It's going to be linear time.
But there are ways to traverse these trees using breadth for search and depth for search.
And we learned that breadth for search is great for the shortest path algorithms, while depth for search
is really great at maze solving problems or perhaps finding if a node even exists.
And depth for search allow us to do in order post order and pre-order sorting.
And we even coded this up all ourselves and we learn how the code works using recursion with depth for
search and also with breadth for search using both iterative and recursive.
Using a Q data structure.
Finally, we also learned a little bit about shortest path problems, such as the one that Google Maps
would use.
When there's weights between nodes in a graph where we can use something like Belmont, Ford or Dijkstra's
algorithm to solve a problem.
Congratulations.
This.
Is your mind map and you've covered every single thing on this map with the exception of one.
And that is this one right over here.
Dynamic programming.
It's a short section to complete our overall mind map and get you interview ready.
So I'll see you in the next section.
Congratulations.
Getting this far.
You're almost there.